---
layout: post
title: Queens Bath
date: 2007-07-22
tags: [Kauai, Vacation, Personal]
---
{% medium_photo dsc_0211.jpg left %}

Today, I slept through what looks to be an amazing sun rise based on the photo
the people I am staying with took. That, is ok though, I am glad that I got the
extra bit of sleep. After getting up and eating an amazing high fiber cereal
for breakfast I took a 3/4 mile hike from the condo down to a place known as
Queens Bath. Queens Bath, is supposedly a place where back in the day, the
Queen used to come and bath due to the presence of an ocean fed pool.

{% medium_photo dsc_0250.jpg right %}

I soon made it to the trail head and continued down a small muddy trail which
follows a small creek that dumps into the ocean via a very cool looking water
fall. After, making it all the way down the trail it opens up to plateau of
lava rock. Following the lava rock to the left takes you to the well known
Queens Bath which was very populated by the time I got there. Given that I am
all about seclusion I continued hiking past the Queens Bath in hopes that I may
find my own personal Kings Bath, :-).

{% medium_photo dsc_0238.jpg left %}

After hiking a little ways past the Queens Bath, I saw in the distance another
bath that was a bit smaller than Queens Bath. However, it was the perfect size
for me and it was totally secluded from all the people enjoying Queens Bath.
After, making it over to my "Kings Bath" I decided I had to get in. It is
slightly tricky to get in to "Kings Bath" due to the abundance of sea urchins
surrounding the edges of the bath. However, once you are in the bath it is an
amazingly refreshing experience in crystal clear ocean water.

{% medium_photo dsc_0245.jpg right %}

After enjoying my own private bath, I carefully climbed out of the bath making
sure not to disturb the sea urchins and started my hike back to the trail. Once
I made it back to the base of the trail I continued hiking to the right side of
the trail which people have told me is usually surrounded by sea turtles.
Despite the reports of the sea turtles I was not lucky enough to see any. It
may have been due to the time that I was hiking at Queens Bath. Despite the
fact that I did not see any sea turtles I did enjoy quite an amazing ocean
view. After, taking in the view I hiked another 3/4 of a mile back to the condo
and took a relaxing dip in the pool. I plan to spend the rest of the day
relaxing and enjoying the pool and Jacuzzi at the condo.
