---
layout: post
title: Ho'opi'i Falls
date: 2007-07-18
tags: [Kauai, Vacation, Personal]
---
{% medium_photo dsc_0119.jpg left %}

As many of you may know. I am currently on the amazing island of Kauai enjoying
what has been a quite an amazing and relaxing break from life. Today, I went on
a hike to a set of water falls known locally as the Ho'opi'i Falls which
consists of both an upper and lower falls powered by a decently large fresh
water stream. The Ho'opi'i Falls are one of the most aggressive set of falls I
have seen on Kauai when it comes to thrashing and rate of flow of the water. I
started the hike by first finding the old dirt utility road which is a buried
pretty deep inside a local neighborhood. After finding the road I hiked about a
1 mile or so back into what is an amazingly beautiful jungle to find the first
falls, the upper falls. The upper falls was roughly a 20 ft fall which narrowed
all the water causing a powerful flow. So, powerful that if a foot was placed
in the water one would be easily swept away. The force and power of the water
was quite humbling.

{% medium_photo dsc_0125.jpg right %}

After taking in the extraordinary upper fall, I continued my hike further into
the jungle for about 1 and 1/2 miles. The further and further I got into the
jungle the denser the jungle got and the higher the humidity got. Given the
location and the standing pools of water in between the falls, some friends of
ours know as the mosquitoes joined me for the hike. I had heard that this hike
was known to have mosquitoes so I sprayed Off all over before the hike.
However, it did not seem to do any good. Despite the attacking mosquitoes I
pushed forward through the jungle eventually finding the lower falls which was
even more magnificent than the upper falls. The lower falls was easily a 100 ft
drop and opened up allowing the falling water to cascade against a barrage of
rocks below.

After spending some time hiking deeper into the jungle to see what I could
find, I ran into a dead end where the faint animal trail I was following
disappeared and the jungle got very dense. At this point I was frustrated with
all the mosquito bites I had received and decided it was time to turn around
and hike the approx. 2 1/2 miles back to the car. Despite the mosquitoes the
hike was well worth it and provided me with a view of two of the most amazing
water falls I have seen on Kauai.
