---
layout: post
title: Waipoo Falls
date: 2007-07-16
tags: [Kauai, Vacation, Personal]
---
{% medium_photo dsc_0052.jpg left %}

Today I hiked to a set of falls known as Waipoo Falls. Waipoo Falls consists of
both an upper and lower falls. These falls exist within beautiful Waimea
Canyon. The trail to Waipoo Falls goes along the northern rim of the canyon.
Along the way there exist a number short trails that lead to amazing viewpoints
to take in Waimea Canyon in all of its glory. After following the canyon trails
for about 1.2 miles I found the Waipoo Upper Falls. The water narrowed and fell
a near 200 feet below into a small pool.

{% medium_photo dsc_0058.jpg right %}

After absorbing the peace and tranquility of the upper falls I continued my
hike to find the lower falls. I took the right fork which took me to the falls
after hiking approximately 0.6 miles. Once, I arrived at the lower falls I
decided that there had to be something beyond these amazing falls. So, I got a
little bit wet and did a bit of rock climbing to get to the top of the falls
and found that yet another trail existed behind the falls which followed an
amazingly elegant stream for at least a 1/2 a mile. I then quickly turned
around and went back to the lower falls to meet back up with the people I went
hiking with.

{% medium_photo dsc_0068.jpg left %}

After returning to the lower falls I started hiking back and got to the fork,
this time I decided to take the Black Pipe trail back to the vehicle. It is
basically a trail which goes the long way around and turns into switch backs
going up the side of one if the mountains faces leading back to the original
dirt road that went back to the car. At one point the Black Pipe trail looks to
dead end, this was the point where the switch backs started. Due to the fact
that the Black Pipe trail is a much less traveled trail the grass had over
grown the path to the starts of the switch backs which is to the right of the
trail end. All and all it was another amazing hike which was in total about 3.5
miles long.
