---
layout: post
title: Bought My First House
date: 2009-07-21
tags: [House, Personal]
---
Few, the stress and hesitation is over with. Today, I closed on my first house.
I am now a home owner. Can you believe that? I can't. It hasn't really settled
in yet that I now own my own home. Now, the excitement and overwhelming feeling
comes of the massive project that is a fixer upper house. However, with that
also comes the great satisfaction and feeling of accomplishment after I make
every addition step towards my goals for this house.

Everyone keeps telling me that the tasks around the house will never end. I am
sure they are right, but that is also part of what I love about it. It
continually evolves as technology and time progress just as any good software
does. Beyond that, I now get to make sure that it is the way I want it. In fact
the two primary factors I took into consideration while looking for houses were
Location, Location, Location, Location and a good base (framing, foundation) to
start from. Oh, and I of course had to consider the money part as well. Luckily
I found a repo that needed a lot of work but had an awesome location and fell
just within my budget.

Buying this house was a very difficult decision to make as I am currently
involved in a number of side software projects besides my normal full time job.
However, everything seemed to fall into place and it felt like the right time.
So, after weeks and weeks of contemplation and discussion with friends and
family I finally decided to take the leap, and here I am now a home owner. Oh
the life!
