---
layout: post
title: House Update and Merry Christmas
date: 2010-12-25
tags: [Circular Saw, Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, Tool Chest, House, Personal]
---
Hey all,

I know it has been a while since I posted an updated on the house and I finally
felt like I had a moment to breath tonight so I am going for it.

I was lucky that this year my family was doing Christmas at my Sister and her
husbands house because it meant that my parents came out a bit early and they
wanted to help with my house. So on the one day they came over, my Mom (I think
of her as a master of mud) started cutting drywall to patch all the holes in
the living room that I had to create to fix the gas lines and replace the
electrical. While my Mom was doing that my Dad and I repiped the kitchen and
got it hooked up to the new copper water system I put in the attic a little bit
ago. My new dishwasher was delivered right around 7:00 pm so we called it a
night.

The next day my Dad came over for a couple hours and we redid some of the
electrical in the kitchen so that my new dishwasher would have electricity.
After, that we installed my new garbage disposal and then install the new
dishwasher. Oh, and when we repiped the kitchen we also ran cold water to the
fridge which didn't used to exist before so now I have a fridge that has water
and can do cool things like make ice!

Once we stopped working it was time to clean up and get ready to go see some
family for Christmas eave which was nice. I learned about a very interesting
iPhone/iPad game called Osmos. It is a very interesting game centralized around
a gravity simulation. Then today I woke up and went over to my Sisters house
and spend time with her and her husband, their kids, my parents, and my sisters
husbands parents. It was a nice to spend time with them. I feel like I have
been so busy lately that I haven't had a chance to see anyone except for people
at work.

Plus its always nice to get presents, :-). This year was amazing I got clothes
that I needed. Beyond that I got some other very practical things that I can
use such as worm drive circular saw and a rolling tool chest. Anyways, thats my
update I think next thing to tackle on the house is to repipe the laundry in
the garage with copper. Once, that is done then I can repipe the existing
bathroom, the one I am currently using, over a weekend. Once, those two things
are done I will no longer be dependent on any galvanized water pipes and I can
get rid of all of them, including the old tanked water heater which is still
hooked up to them.

So, I hope you all had as nice of a Christmas as I did. I will try to post soon
with another update on the house.
