---
layout: post
title: New Windows (Day 2)
date: 2010-04-22
tags: [Door, Dual Pane, Four Pane, Sliding, Stucco, House, Personal]
---
Today was yet another exciting day. C & M Windows came back for the second day
of my new windows installation. The plan for today was for them to get my new
10 foot 4 pane sliding door framed in and installed with the necessary weather
proofing minus the stucco and finish work on the inside. The other object that
they set out to complete today was framing in the side door to the area which
is now going to become an indoor laundry room so that I don't have go out to
the garage to do laundry.

C & M Windows managed to accomplish both of these tasks today within reasonable
amount of time and were a pleasure to have around the house as usual. Last
night when I was attempting to fall asleep it was amazing to notice the
difference in the amount of sound now that all the new dual pane windows have
been installed vs. the old single pane windows. Tonight, thus far has been even
quieter as the sliding door has been installed. Beyond that the temperature
difference between the house and the outside is much better now.

They worked on the slider framing and installation first and then proceeded to
frame in the door and prep it with necessary moisture barriers and lath so that
tomorrow they could mix the stucco and do the all the stucco in one session and
finish work in one session. I can't wait for tomorrow to come and to see the
results of all this work and money.

If you are interested in seeing the results of today click
[here](http://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.535699781490.2048927.30901409&type=3&l=19a3bc4d10).
I included pictures of both new slider and the side door where you can see the
flashing, moisture barrier, and the lath that will receive the scratch, brown,
and color coat of stucco tomorrow. 
