---
layout: post
title: Gas Pipes & Dumpster
date: 2010-05-09
tags: [Black Iron Pipe, Fiber Glass, Grass, Natural Gas, Patio, Tilling, House, Personal]
---
Few, I just completed a very exhausting weekend with Aly and my parents. This
weekend I ordered a dumpster because my parents were coming down to help work
on my house and I had a massive pile of rubble in the backyard RV parking spot
that needed to go. Once we loaded the dumpster with all of the rubble (more
than two rooms of plaster) we decided to demo another room as the allocated 18
inches of heavy material at the bottom wasn't filled. This was crucial in my
opinion because that damn dumpster cost so much.

Once, we had completed the plaster portion of the dumpster loading my Dad and I
went to finish running the new gas pipes to the tankless water heater and
pressure test them while Aly and my Mom worked on the back yard patio. It took
us all weekend to get the pipes in and pressure tested. There is still a small
leak as it is dropping 2 10ths of a PSI in 15 mins. Hence, further pressure
testing is needed to get to the required state of holding 15 PSI for 15 mins.
We went through and tested all of the new joints numerous times but couldn't
find any leaks. Hence, we talked to some people we know in the industry and it
seems that when you pressure test and find a leak you generally have to jack up
the pressure pretty high 60 to 100 PSI and spray the entire joint not just the
threading edges to find the leaks because some joints, elbows especially, tend
to have pin holes due to imperfect manufacturing. We probably could have gotten
this handled if it hadn't been Mother's Day on Sunday but it was nice to take a
break and visit with family anyways.

Little did my Dad and I know, while we were hard at work on the black iron
pipes, Aly and my Mom had done a huge amount of cleanup on in the backyard,
started tilling the grass we previously killed, and removed most of the old
nasty fiber glass patio cover. I was amazed with how much they managed to get
done.

Thanks Girls!!

As usual I took pictures to let you all in on the progress. You can see them
[here](http://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.535700310430.2048932.30901409&type=3&l=2a1476b7e5).

Oh, I also managed to replace the lighting boxes that were previously under the
patio cover with outdoor boxes and light fixtures. Stay tuned for new
developments with the house.
