---
layout: post
title: New Windows (Day 3)
date: 2010-04-24
tags: [Brown Coat, Color Coat, Framing, Mortar Mix, Quickreete, Scratch Coat, Stucco, House, Personal]
---
Today was the 3rd and final day of installation for this batch of windows which
in total included 8 windows, one 4 pane 10 foot sliding glass door, framing a
door way in, and doing all the stucco work. When C & M Windows got here the day
began with a bunch of prep work for doing detail work and stucco.

Once they performed all the prep work they did the finish work on the inside of
the sliding glass doors. This consisted of ripping some small pieces of wood to
account for the thickness of the plaster because the Milgard Sliders are sizes
the standard width of a 2x4 and therefore require that you put filler in the
gap to finish it. Once they cut & installed all the pieces using a micro nailer
they starting with the molding. By the way micro nailers are bitchin. I am
going to have to acquire one at some point soon, :-). It was interesting to see
them measure and cut the molding because they didn't measure it. They simply
placed the first piece and marked it according to the door frame. They then cut
that piece and one end of the top piece, placed it, dry fitted it, and then
marked it on the right side. They then proceeded to cut that piece and
proceeded with the same process with the right piece. This technique produced a
much better result than jobs I have seen done in the past where they simply
measured.

Anyways once they finished installing the molding they caulked it and then
moved on to anchoring the framed in door to the concrete and then began the
stucco process. During my lunch break today they were kind enough to give me a
quick course in stuccoing. It is very similar in technique and process to that
of mudding which I have as of recent become pretty damn comfortable with.
Anyways, they ended up doing the single coat of scratch & brown coat combo to
bring the stucco out pretty much even around the door. They mixed in roughly
1/3 rd Mortar Mix with the Quickreet scratch & brown coat combo mix to increase
the setting time to roughly 20 mins.

After finishing that they went and did the scratch coat on the area where they
framed in the door. The scratch coat was the same mixture but they did it as a
slightly thinner batch (more water) so that it would mix in with the lath
better. Once that started to set a tiny bit they scratched it and went back to
the door and cleaned up the stucco as it is much easier to clean up if you let
it set a little bit because it won't pull the stucco out when you edge it off.
Anyways, they then went back and loaded and floated the brown coat on the
framed in door and feathered it to blend it with the existing stucco. Once it
was all even they let that set for a bit and started mixing the color coat
which they had a chart that let them know what color coats to mix to produce
the closest color stucco. Then they mixed that which was a much thinner batch
compared to the scratch and brown. Beyond that, they did NOT mix in the mortar
mix this time. They simply used the straight up color coat with some water as
usual.

Anyways, they finished the color coats and cleaned up the stucco here and there
after they let it set a bit and then did finishing touches on cleaning up the
doors and removing the tap and cover from the slider as well as just doing
general cleanup. And that was it, my doors were installed I wrote the check for
the final payment and like magic I have amazing new windows and a slider and
got a lesson in stucco.

Checkout the results
[here](http://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.535699916220.2048928.30901409&type=3&l=354c6d171b).
