---
layout: post
title: Got to Love Excuses (MacBook Air)
date: 2010-05-07
tags: [Apple, MacBook Air, MacBook Pro 17in]
---
So as a result of my 17in Mac Book Pro Battery expanding and my second battery
starting to approach the same level of expansion I decided that I would use
this as an excuse to upgrade my, I think, 4 your old 17in Mac Book Pro with a
much smaller version as I have been coding all over the place lately. I have
been going to Ruby group meet ups, private project development meet ups, and
just wanted to get out of the office and do some coding. Hence, I bought one.
Thats right, a MacBook Air. You can see the two machines side by side in the
following picture.

![MacBook Air vs. 17in MacBook Pro](http://sphotos.xx.fbcdn.net/hphotos-snc7/73103_535700534980_831560_n.jpg)

Initially I thought I was seriously going to hate the small screen but then I
thought about it and decided what the hell I should just take the leap and
adapt as is required with most things. So, I did. Let me tell you there is
something about having lots of screen space that was holding me back from using
Spaces. My original background was Linux which has had the same concept as
Spaces for as long as I can remember. I had no problem using virtual desktops
(a.k.a. Spaces) when in Linux but I could never really get the feel for using
them with my 17in. But, now that I have a tiny little ultra light weight sexy
beast of machine that has a tiny 13in screen, I LOVE Spaces. I stay more
organized this way and have a lot less clutter in my environment.

It blows me away that reducing my screen size has had so much of an effect on
my workflow and organization, and in a positive direction at that. Crazy,
anyways I will make posts on any tricky things I have found I don't like or
love about the MacBook Air as my usage of it progresses.
