---
layout: post
title: New Windows (Day 1)
date: 2010-04-21
tags: [Energy Efficient, Milgard, White Lammi Glass, Windows, House]
---
Hey Boys & Girls, Today was definitely a very eventful day. Beyond the normal
work stuff, like conference calls all day, one very interesting thing happened
in my life today. Today, was Day 1 of the installation of my new Windows by a
small company called C&M Windows. As those of you that are close to me know, I
am in a mode of supporting small businesses lately and C&M Construction (I
think they also DBA as C&M Windows) is definitely one that is at the top of my
list. I can not recommend them strongly enough for any Window or Door needs you
might have. Anyways, they have very low overhead because they are such a small
business so they can usually beat everyone else's quotes. Beyond that they are
just awesome people and do great work!

Anyways, I orded 8 Milgard windows and 1 sliding glass door through them and
they came out today and installed the 8 windows. They got here a tad bit
earlier than 9:00 am and and managed to get all 8 windows installed by roughly
3:00 pm. They are coming back tomorrow to do the installation of the sliding
glass door and do a bit of framing work and stucco work for me. You can see the
pictures of the 8 windows that were replaced today
[here](http://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.535699377300.2048926.30901409&type=3&l=fa386bcc77).
Beyond the windows you will see the slider that is going to be replaced
tomorrow and the side door that is going to be framed in and stuccoed tomorrow.
You will see the difference between the old and new believe me, :-).

Anyways, I am super excited that I have nice windows in my house now. It feels
so much better already and there is more to come tomorrow. I am like a little
kid on Christmas morning. Anyways, just figured I would share it with all of
you.
