---
layout: post
title: Finished Laying Bathroom Tile
date: 2012-09-03
tags: [Personal, House]
---
Well, it has been a while since I posted any of my progress on the house. So
here is a little update.

This weekend I finished laying all the tile in the bathroom shower, the
bullnosed tiles for the baseboard and setting the shelf in the shower. If you
want to see some pics of the state of it when I finished laying all the tile
check out the link below.

[Bathroom Tiling Pictures](http://adoberevel.com/shares/aeb62c90ae424a1d8764bdabd73de954)

I also bought a wash tub for the garage. I did this so I can scrub my hands
and my tools without having to come inside the house. Tonight I constructed the
pipe system to connect from the wash tub to the existing drain system in the
garage. If you would like to see how I tied the wash tub drain into the
existing drain system you can check out the pictures below.

[Wash Tub Drain Connection](http://adoberevel.com/shares/399cf69494ba4bc1a61814191312e3ca)

Anyways, my next steps for the bathroom are to clean all the tiles and make
sure the grout paths are clear. Once, I have cleaned up the tile and grout
paths I will be ready to grout the tiles. I will be using a polyblend sanded
grout and a color matched caulk in the inner corners of the shower. I was told
that I should use the caulk in the inner corners because the walls expand and
shrink as the temperature changes and it usually causes grout in the inner
corners to crack. Hence, use caulk because it is more flexible and can absorb
the expansion and contraction of the walls.

I feel pretty good about all the progress I have made this weekend and can't
wait for the shelf to finish setting so that I can clean up all the tile and
get to grouting. The vision of the bathroom is finally starting to come
together and I can't wait to get it finished.

Till next time.

